# schedule-generator

A schedule generator for the University of Ottawa writting in Java, using OCSF.

## Introduction

This is being created by Ted Morin & Daniel Murdoch as assignment 5 & 7 for the course SEG2105A at the University of Ottawa.
We are creating this program based on one simple problem line:
University of Ottawa students have no easy way to generate a conflict-free, optimised schedule.

## Features

### Current Featurse

Some features currently present:

- A console and graphical user interface.
- Select mandatory courses, but can edit sections.
- Select x of y optional courses, ideal for electives.
- Hosting a server at home.tedmor.in to let individuals connect with the GUI.
- Export .ics files for easy calendar integration.

### Future Features

Looking toward the future:

- When time permits, a nice feature would be a dynamically-sized GUI, but this is not planned in the short-term.
- Make suggestions for other features!

## Help

### Getting Started

1. To start, it is recommended to download the program's front-end. This can be found in the [executable directory](schedule-generator/executable) under the name [Schedule-Generator.jar](schedule-generator/executableschedule-Generator.jar).

2. Run the .jar.

	Simply double-click the .jar to run. If you don't have Java installed, you can get it from [Sun's website](http://java.com/en/download/index.jsp) or by running [Ninite](http://ninite.com) (my preffered choice, as there is no chance of the silly "Ask Toolbar").

3. Wait for the server to connect, then select a semester from the drop down.

4. Start typing a course code in the search text box.

5. Select a course from the search results. You can click "Add Selected Course", double-click the course, or if there is only one search result, hit enter.

6. If you'd like to select from a list of electives, check the "Optional?" option. For example, you can add 10 electives, then say that you can choose 2 of them, and your schedule will reflect this. The number of electives you'd like to choose is at the bottom of the pane, changed with the "-" and "+" buttons.

	Mandatory courses or electives you definitely want should not be using the optional option. It is more for when you are looking at which elective is most convenient for your schedule.

7. After selecting your courses, you may choose to omit certain sections or activities (like DGDs) based on their location, professor, or if they're full. To do this, double-click your course or click the course and select "Edit". You can use the checkboxes in the pop-up window to change your selection.

8. Select a sort order: Earliest start, shortest days, least days per week, whatever. You choose what matters most to you. By default, all other sort orders have a secondary sort of least days per week. Meaning that if two schedules have the same average starting time, the one with the least days will be favored.

9. Click generate! You will receive the schedules on the calendar, which you can browse through.

10. You can view the text-formatted schedule (for easy entry into Rabaska) or export an .ICS file (for import into Google Calendar)

### Google Calendar Import

After exporting an iCalendar file, you will want to import it into a program. Microsoft Outlook makes it simple to just open the file, but Google Calendar is slightly more involved.

Note: You'll want to create a new calendar, just in case you want to delete the events created in this process. If you add it to your regular calendar and there is an error, there is no quick "Undo" function.

1. Create a new Calendar on the left side-bar. Next to "My calendars", click the drop-down and select "Create New Calendar". Assign it a snazzy colour and name it something suave like "uOttawa F2014".

2. Click "Create Calendar"

3. In the drop-down next to "Other calendars", select "Import calendar"

4. On this pop-up, hit "Choose File" and select the .ICS file generated by the schedule-generator.

5. Select the calendar you just created in the drop-box, and hit "Import"

6. Enjoy your newly-generated calendar! Notice that the section, course code, course name, professor, and location are included in the events.

We don't account for holidays, so make sure you don't come to school during Study Week!

## Dependencies

The schedule generator was made using the OCSF client-server interface. The iCalendar support is provided by [Biweekly](http://sourceforge.net/projects/biweekly/)